I will Brush My Teeth: A Social Story

After I eat i need to brush my teeth

I will go to the bathroom

Then i turn on the water

Pick up my toothbrush and wet the bristles

Then i add a small amount of toothpaste

And brush my teeth

I'll brush the front ...The back...The top...and the bottom!

Now i will spit in the sink

Rinse my toothbrush

And turn off the water

And that  is how i brush my teeth!All by myself!!!

When i Get Ready:A Social Story

After i wake up in the morning

I need to get dressed for the day

I will pick out my colthes

A shirt...Pants...Underwear...Socks...And shoes!

First i put on my underwear...

Then i put on my shirt

Next is my pants

My socks...

And finally my shoes!

Now i am ready for the day!

I can get dressed by myself!!!

I will say "Hello"!A Social Story

Sometimes people greet me..

And i do not know what to say

So i don't say anything

And that can make them sad...

So when a friend or teacher says "Hello"

I can say "Hello" or "Hi" to them!

Now i can greet my friends and teachers!

When my parents say "No":A Social story

Sometimes i get upsetwhen Mon and Dad tellme "No"

And i cry and screamand lay on the ground

This makes Mom and Dad sad. and hurts their feelings.

Because the don't say "No" to be mean

They say it because they care

Instead of throwing a fit.i will take a coulple of deep breaths

And ask if we can do it next time

I can stay calm when Mom and Dad say "No"

I will take Turns: A Social Story

I like playing games with my friends

Sometimes i forget to take turns

Because playing is so much fun!

And i want to go again!

But no one else will have fun if i am the only one playing

So i need to STOP

Give my friends a turn

Then it is my turn again!

That way my friends can have fun too!

When everyone plays, everyone have fun!!!

I can take turns with my friends!!!

When i lose: A Social Story

I like playing games!

When i win i am happy!

When i lose i get mad!

When i get mad, no one wants to play with me.

When i lose i will Stop!

Take a deep breath...

And say " Good game! Let's play again!"

I can lose and still have fin with my friends!!!

I Will Stay With Mommy A Social Story: About Not Running Away

I like going fun places with my mommy.

When i want to run First... i stop.

And ask mommy "can we go over there?"

I do not run away.

When i run... i can get hurt...

...or lost.

That scares mommy and makes her sad.

So i won't run. and i will stay with mommy.

When it is Too much: A Social Story

Sometimes i go new places my famiy and friends

Sometimes when i go to crowded places

I find the crowd

Or noise..

Overwhelming!!!

When it starts to feel like too much

I can ask my parents to take me somewhere else

And will cover my ears

So i can calm down

Once i cal down we can try again!

I can go new places with my family!!!

Do You Know the Password: A Social Story

Sometimes Mom and Dad can't Pick me up

So they will tell me a password

If someone i don't know tries to pick me up

And they don't know the password

I Will Not go with them

And will tell the teacher!

I know the Password! And what to do when a stranger doesn't!

When I go to School: A Social Story

When i'm at school sometimes i talk out of turn

Tehn i get in trouble for inteerupting

So i will raise my hand

And wait for the teacher to call on me

When the teacher calls on me i can share my thoughts

So i will raise my hand when i am at school!!!

When i go to a Restaurant: A Social Story

Sometimes my family goes to eat

Once we get isnide we have to wait for a table

Sometimes i get upsed when i am hungry

When i'm upset i will take a deep breath, and let it out

When the waitress shows us a table, then we sit down

After we sit, i look at the menu

If I have questions then i can ask my parents

Before i order i ask my parents if i can get what i want

If they say no, i take a breath

And look at meny again

If they say yes, i will tell the waitress when she asks

I will wait for everyone to get their food, before i start eating.

When we are done, I will wait for for my parents to pay the bill

And i will say "thank you" to the staff when we leave

I can go to restaurants with my family!

When i go to the park: A Social Story

Sometimes my family and i go to the park

The park can be fun!

There are swings!

And slides!

While i'm playing i need to know where Mon or Dad is

I should always be able to see them!

If i can't see them, then they can't see me

So i move to where i can see them

So they know i am safe!

If i know where Mom and Dad are...

I can go to the park and be safe!!!

When i go to the Grocery Store: A Social Story

Sometimes we go the grocery store

While we are there we get lots of things!

I will be on my best behavior!

So everyone can enjoy our trip to the store!

I will stay with Mom while we are shopping

So that i don't get lost while we shop

And i will ask if we can get something, before putting it in the cart!

If she says"no,put it back" i can say "maybe next time"

If she says "yes" i will say "Thank You!"

When we check out i need to be patient

I can go shopping with Mom!

Sometimes i go to the doctor's office

When i am sick, the Doctor can help me

But sometimes i get scared

i have to wait in the Waiting room

When the nurse calls my name, Mom or Dad will go with me

They may weight me and check my height

To see how much i've grown!

When i get to the doctors room i will sit on the table

The Doctor or nurse will ask what is wrong today or how are you feeling?

While they are examining me they may put things on my arm

Or on my chest

Or in my ear

Or in my mouth!

They do this to figure out why i am sick

If it is too much i will ask him to "please Stop"

When he figures out why i am sick, he will tell us how to make me feel better!!!

I can go to the Doctor, because he's going to help me feel better!!!

When i go to the Dentist: A Social Story

Sometimes I go to the Dentist!

The Dentist helps take care of my teeth

I will brush my teeth before i go, so they are nice and clean!

After they call my name i will follow the Hygienist to the room

I will sit in the chair that reclines

And let the hygienist put the bib on me, to protect my colthes

We will figure out a signal for me to make if something hurts.

I will listen to the Hygienist when she tells me to open and close my mouth

I will not bite her fingers while she is working

If something hurts I will give her the signal

Once my teeth are clean the Dentist will take a look

After he is done, it is time to go home!!!

I can go to the Dentist!!!

When i go to Church: A Social Story

Sometimes on Sunday my family goes to Church

When we get there i will go to Sunday School

While i am in class Mom and Dad will go to their class

While i am there i will listen to the teacher

After Sunday School i will walk with my calss to Junior Church

During Junior Church i will listen to the Bible stories

I will close my eyes during prayer

Raise my hand if i have questions

And sing the songs

When calss is over Mom and Dad will pick me up

And then we head home together!

I can go to Church with my family!!!